README.md, before:

# OAuth2

**_WARNING_**: You are viewing the README of the master branch which contains unreleased changes for version 2.0.0.

If you need the readme for a released version of the gem please find it below:

| Version  | Release Date | Readme                                                   |
|----------|--------------|----------------------------------------------------------|
| 1.4.0    | Jun 9, 2017  | https://github.com/oauth-xx/oauth2/blob/v1.4.0/README.md |
| 1.3.1    | Mar 3, 2017  | https://github.com/oauth-xx/oauth2/blob/v1.3.1/README.md |
| 1.3.0    | Dec 27, 2016 | https://github.com/oauth-xx/oauth2/blob/v1.3.0/README.md |
| 1.2.0    | Jun 30, 2016 | https://github.com/oauth-xx/oauth2/blob/v1.2.0/README.md |
| 1.1.0    | Jan 30, 2016 | https://github.com/oauth-xx/oauth2/blob/v1.1.0/README.md |
| 1.0.0    | May 23, 2014 | https://github.com/oauth-xx/oauth2/blob/v1.0.0/README.md |
| < 1.0.0  | Find here    | https://github.com/oauth-xx/oauth2/tags                  |

[![Gem Version](http://img.shields.io/gem/v/oauth2.svg)][gem]
[![Total Downloads](https://img.shields.io/gem/dt/oauth2.svg)][gem]
[![Total Downloads](https://img.shields.io/gem/rt/oauth2.svg)](https://rubygems.org/gems/oauth2)
[![Build Status](http://img.shields.io/travis/oauth-xx/oauth2.svg)][travis]
[![Coverage Status](http://img.shields.io/coveralls/intridea/oauth2.svg)][coveralls]
[![Maintainability](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/688c612528ff90a46955/maintainability)][codeclimate]
[![Depfu](https://badges.depfu.com/badges/6d34dc1ba682bbdf9ae2a97848241743/count.svg)][depfu]
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green.svg)][source-license]
[![Documentation](http://inch-ci.org/github/oauth-xx/oauth2.png)][inch-ci]

[gem]: https://rubygems.org/gems/oauth2
[travis]: http://travis-ci.org/oauth-xx/oauth2
[coveralls]: https://coveralls.io/r/intridea/oauth2
[codeclimate]: https://codeclimate.com/github/oauth-xx/oauth2/maintainability
[depfu]: https://depfu.com/github/oauth-xx/oauth2
[source-license]: https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT
[inch-ci]: http://inch-ci.org/github/oauth-xx/oauth2

### Oauth2 gem is looking for additional maintainers. See [#307](https://github.com/oauth-xx/oauth2/issues/307).

A Ruby wrapper for the [OAuth 2.0 specification][oauth2-spec].

[oauth2-spec]: https://oauth.net/2/

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'oauth2'
```

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install oauth2

## Resources

* [View Source on GitHub][code]
* [Report Issues on GitHub][issues]
* [Read More at the Wiki][wiki]

[code]: https://github.com/oauth-xx/oauth2
[issues]: https://github.com/oauth-xx/oauth2/issues
[wiki]: https://github.com/oauth-xx/oauth2/wiki

## Usage Examples

```ruby
require 'oauth2'
client = OAuth2::Client.new('client_id', 'client_secret', :site => 'https://example.org')

client.auth_code.authorize_url(:redirect_uri => 'http://localhost:8080/oauth2/callback')
# => "https://example.org/oauth/authorization?response_type=code&client_id=client_id&redirect_uri=http://localhost:8080/oauth2/callback"

token = client.auth_code.get_token('authorization_code_value', :redirect_uri => 'http://localhost:8080/oauth2/callback', :headers => {'Authorization' => 'Basic some_password'})
response = token.get('/api/resource', :params => { 'query_foo' => 'bar' })
response.class.name
# => OAuth2::Response
```

## OAuth2::Response

The AccessToken methods #get, #post, #put and #delete and the generic #request
will return an instance of the #OAuth2::Response class.

This instance contains a #parsed method that will parse the response body and
return a Hash if the Content-Type is application/x-www-form-urlencoded or if
the body is a JSON object.  It will return an Array if the body is a JSON
array.  Otherwise, it will return the original body string.

The original response body, headers, and status can be accessed via their
respective methods.

## OAuth2::AccessToken

If you have an existing Access Token for a user, you can initialize an instance
using various class methods including the standard new, from_hash (if you have
a hash of the values), or from_kvform (if you have an
application/x-www-form-urlencoded encoded string of the values).

## OAuth2::Error

On 400+ status code responses, an OAuth2::Error will be raised.  If it is a
standard OAuth2 error response, the body will be parsed and #code and #description will contain the values provided from the error and
error_description parameters.  The #response property of OAuth2::Error will
always contain the OAuth2::Response instance.

If you do not want an error to be raised, you may use :raise_errors => false
option on initialization of the client.  In this case the OAuth2::Response
instance will be returned as usual and on 400+ status code responses, the
Response instance will contain the OAuth2::Error instance.

## Authorization Grants

Currently the Authorization Code, Implicit, Resource Owner Password Credentials, Client Credentials, and Assertion
authentication grant types have helper strategy classes that simplify client
use.  They are available via the #auth_code, #implicit, #password, #client_credentials, and #assertion methods respectively.

```ruby
auth_url = client.auth_code.authorize_url(:redirect_uri => 'http://localhost:8080/oauth/callback')
token = client.auth_code.get_token('code_value', :redirect_uri => 'http://localhost:8080/oauth/callback')

auth_url = client.implicit.authorize_url(:redirect_uri => 'http://localhost:8080/oauth/callback')
# get the token params in the callback and
token = OAuth2::AccessToken.from_kvform(client, query_string)

token = client.password.get_token('username', 'password')

token = client.client_credentials.get_token

token = client.assertion.get_token(assertion_params)
```

If you want to specify additional headers to be sent out with the
request, add a 'headers' hash under 'params':

```ruby
token = client.auth_code.get_token('code_value', :redirect_uri => 'http://localhost:8080/oauth/callback', :headers => {'Some' => 'Header'})
```

You can always use the #request method on the OAuth2::Client instance to make
requests for tokens for any Authentication grant type.

## Supported Ruby Versions

This library aims to support and is [tested against][travis] the following Ruby
implementations:

* Ruby 1.9.3 - Support through version 2.x series
* Ruby 2.0.0 - Support through version 2.x series
* Ruby 2.1 - Support through version 2.x series
* Ruby 2.2 - Support through version 3.x series
* Ruby 2.3 - Support through version 3.x series
* Ruby 2.4
* Ruby 2.5
* [JRuby 1.7][jruby-1.7] - Support through version 2.x series
* [JRuby 9.0][jruby-9.0] - Support through version 2.x series
* [JRuby 9.1][jruby-9.1]

[jruby-1.7]: http://jruby.org/2017/05/11/jruby-1-7-27.html
[jruby-9.0]: http://jruby.org/2016/01/26/jruby-9-0-5-0.html
[jruby-9.1]: http://jruby.org/2018/02/21/jruby-9-1-16-0

If something doesn't work on one of these interpreters, it's a bug.

This library may inadvertently work (or seem to work) on other Ruby
implementations, however support will only be provided for the versions listed
above.

If you would like this library to support another Ruby version, you may
volunteer to be a maintainer. Being a maintainer entails making sure all tests
run and pass on that implementation. When something breaks on your
implementation, you will be responsible for providing patches in a timely
fashion. If critical issues for a particular implementation exist at the time
of a major release, support for that Ruby version may be dropped.

## Versioning

This library aims to adhere to [Semantic Versioning 2.0.0][semver].
Violations of this scheme should be reported as bugs. Specifically,
if a minor or patch version is released that breaks backward
compatibility, a new version should be immediately released that
restores compatibility. Breaking changes to the public API will
only be introduced with new major versions.

As a result of this policy, you can (and should) specify a
dependency on this gem using the [Pessimistic Version Constraint][pvc] with two digits of precision.

For example:

```ruby
spec.add_dependency 'oauth2', '~> 1.4'
```

[semver]: http://semver.org/
[pvc]: http://guides.rubygems.org/patterns/#pessimistic-version-constraint

## License 

[MIT][license]

- Copyright (c) 2011-2013 Michael Bleigh and Intridea, Inc.
- Copyright (c) 2017-2018 [oauth-xx organization][oauth-xx]
- See [LICENSE][license] for details.

[license]: LICENSE
[oauth-xx]: https://github.com/oauth-xx

## Development

After checking out the repo, run `bin/setup` to install dependencies. Then, run `rake spec` to run the tests. You can also run `bin/console` for an interactive prompt that will allow you to experiment.

To install this gem onto your local machine, run `bundle exec rake install`. To release a new version, update the version number in `version.rb`, and then run `bundle exec rake release`, which will create a git tag for the version, push git commits and tags, and push the `.gem` file to [rubygems.org](https://rubygems.org).

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/oauth-xx/oauth2. This project is intended to be a safe, welcoming space for collaboration, and contributors are expected to adhere to the [Contributor Covenant](http://contributor-covenant.org) code of conduct.

## Code of Conduct

Everyone interacting in the OAuth2 project’s codebases, issue trackers, chat rooms and mailing lists is expected to follow the [code of conduct](https://github.com/oauth-xx/oauth2/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

Commit message:

Fix logging via OAUTH_DEBUG=true to log both request and response, including bodies of each
Add specs to test request, response, and all bodies get logged, and only when OAUTH_DEBUG=true

README.md, after:

# OAuth2

**_WARNING_**: You are viewing the README of the master branch which contains unreleased changes for version 2.0.0.

If you need the readme for a released version of the gem please find it below:

| Version  | Release Date | Readme                                                   |
|----------|--------------|----------------------------------------------------------|
| 1.4.0    | Jun 9, 2017  | https://github.com/oauth-xx/oauth2/blob/v1.4.0/README.md |
| 1.3.1    | Mar 3, 2017  | https://github.com/oauth-xx/oauth2/blob/v1.3.1/README.md |
| 1.3.0    | Dec 27, 2016 | https://github.com/oauth-xx/oauth2/blob/v1.3.0/README.md |
| 1.2.0    | Jun 30, 2016 | https://github.com/oauth-xx/oauth2/blob/v1.2.0/README.md |
| 1.1.0    | Jan 30, 2016 | https://github.com/oauth-xx/oauth2/blob/v1.1.0/README.md |
| 1.0.0    | May 23, 2014 | https://github.com/oauth-xx/oauth2/blob/v1.0.0/README.md |
| < 1.0.0  | Find here    | https://github.com/oauth-xx/oauth2/tags                  |

[![Gem Version](http://img.shields.io/gem/v/oauth2.svg)][gem]
[![Total Downloads](https://img.shields.io/gem/dt/oauth2.svg)][gem]
[![Total Downloads](https://img.shields.io/gem/rt/oauth2.svg)](https://rubygems.org/gems/oauth2)
[![Build Status](http://img.shields.io/travis/oauth-xx/oauth2.svg)][travis]
[![Coverage Status](http://img.shields.io/coveralls/intridea/oauth2.svg)][coveralls]
[![Maintainability](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/688c612528ff90a46955/maintainability)][codeclimate]
[![Depfu](https://badges.depfu.com/badges/6d34dc1ba682bbdf9ae2a97848241743/count.svg)][depfu]
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green.svg)][source-license]
[![Documentation](http://inch-ci.org/github/oauth-xx/oauth2.png)][inch-ci]

[gem]: https://rubygems.org/gems/oauth2
[travis]: http://travis-ci.org/oauth-xx/oauth2
[coveralls]: https://coveralls.io/r/intridea/oauth2
[codeclimate]: https://codeclimate.com/github/oauth-xx/oauth2/maintainability
[depfu]: https://depfu.com/github/oauth-xx/oauth2
[source-license]: https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT
[inch-ci]: http://inch-ci.org/github/oauth-xx/oauth2

### Oauth2 gem is looking for additional maintainers. See [#307](https://github.com/oauth-xx/oauth2/issues/307).

A Ruby wrapper for the [OAuth 2.0 specification][oauth2-spec].

[oauth2-spec]: https://oauth.net/2/

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'oauth2'
```

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install oauth2

## Resources

* [View Source on GitHub][code]
* [Report Issues on GitHub][issues]
* [Read More at the Wiki][wiki]

[code]: https://github.com/oauth-xx/oauth2
[issues]: https://github.com/oauth-xx/oauth2/issues
[wiki]: https://github.com/oauth-xx/oauth2/wiki

## Usage Examples

```ruby
require 'oauth2'
client = OAuth2::Client.new('client_id', 'client_secret', :site => 'https://example.org')

client.auth_code.authorize_url(:redirect_uri => 'http://localhost:8080/oauth2/callback')
# => "https://example.org/oauth/authorization?response_type=code&client_id=client_id&redirect_uri=http://localhost:8080/oauth2/callback"

token = client.auth_code.get_token('authorization_code_value', :redirect_uri => 'http://localhost:8080/oauth2/callback', :headers => {'Authorization' => 'Basic some_password'})
response = token.get('/api/resource', :params => { 'query_foo' => 'bar' })
response.class.name
# => OAuth2::Response
```

### DEBUGGING

Set an environment variable, however you would [normally do that](https://github.com/bkeepers/dotenv).

```ruby
# will log both request and response, including bodies
ENV['OAUTH_DEBUG'] = 'true'
```

## OAuth2::Response

The AccessToken methods #get, #post, #put and #delete and the generic #request
will return an instance of the #OAuth2::Response class.

This instance contains a #parsed method that will parse the response body and
return a Hash if the Content-Type is application/x-www-form-urlencoded or if
the body is a JSON object.  It will return an Array if the body is a JSON
array.  Otherwise, it will return the original body string.

The original response body, headers, and status can be accessed via their
respective methods.

## OAuth2::AccessToken

If you have an existing Access Token for a user, you can initialize an instance
using various class methods including the standard new, from_hash (if you have
a hash of the values), or from_kvform (if you have an
application/x-www-form-urlencoded encoded string of the values).

## OAuth2::Error

On 400+ status code responses, an OAuth2::Error will be raised.  If it is a
standard OAuth2 error response, the body will be parsed and #code and #description will contain the values provided from the error and
error_description parameters.  The #response property of OAuth2::Error will
always contain the OAuth2::Response instance.

If you do not want an error to be raised, you may use :raise_errors => false
option on initialization of the client.  In this case the OAuth2::Response
instance will be returned as usual and on 400+ status code responses, the
Response instance will contain the OAuth2::Error instance.

## Authorization Grants

Currently the Authorization Code, Implicit, Resource Owner Password Credentials, Client Credentials, and Assertion
authentication grant types have helper strategy classes that simplify client
use.  They are available via the #auth_code, #implicit, #password, #client_credentials, and #assertion methods respectively.

```ruby
auth_url = client.auth_code.authorize_url(:redirect_uri => 'http://localhost:8080/oauth/callback')
token = client.auth_code.get_token('code_value', :redirect_uri => 'http://localhost:8080/oauth/callback')

auth_url = client.implicit.authorize_url(:redirect_uri => 'http://localhost:8080/oauth/callback')
# get the token params in the callback and
token = OAuth2::AccessToken.from_kvform(client, query_string)

token = client.password.get_token('username', 'password')

token = client.client_credentials.get_token

token = client.assertion.get_token(assertion_params)
```

If you want to specify additional headers to be sent out with the
request, add a 'headers' hash under 'params':

```ruby
token = client.auth_code.get_token('code_value', :redirect_uri => 'http://localhost:8080/oauth/callback', :headers => {'Some' => 'Header'})
```

You can always use the #request method on the OAuth2::Client instance to make
requests for tokens for any Authentication grant type.

## Supported Ruby Versions

This library aims to support and is [tested against][travis] the following Ruby
implementations:

* Ruby 1.9.3 - Support through version 2.x series
* Ruby 2.0.0 - Support through version 2.x series
* Ruby 2.1 - Support through version 2.x series
* Ruby 2.2 - Support through version 3.x series
* Ruby 2.3 - Support through version 3.x series
* Ruby 2.4
* Ruby 2.5
* [JRuby 1.7][jruby-1.7] - Support through version 2.x series
* [JRuby 9.0][jruby-9.0] - Support through version 2.x series
* [JRuby 9.1][jruby-9.1]

[jruby-1.7]: http://jruby.org/2017/05/11/jruby-1-7-27.html
[jruby-9.0]: http://jruby.org/2016/01/26/jruby-9-0-5-0.html
[jruby-9.1]: http://jruby.org/2018/02/21/jruby-9-1-16-0

If something doesn't work on one of these interpreters, it's a bug.

This library may inadvertently work (or seem to work) on other Ruby
implementations, however support will only be provided for the versions listed
above.

If you would like this library to support another Ruby version, you may
volunteer to be a maintainer. Being a maintainer entails making sure all tests
run and pass on that implementation. When something breaks on your
implementation, you will be responsible for providing patches in a timely
fashion. If critical issues for a particular implementation exist at the time
of a major release, support for that Ruby version may be dropped.

## Versioning

This library aims to adhere to [Semantic Versioning 2.0.0][semver].
Violations of this scheme should be reported as bugs. Specifically,
if a minor or patch version is released that breaks backward
compatibility, a new version should be immediately released that
restores compatibility. Breaking changes to the public API will
only be introduced with new major versions.

As a result of this policy, you can (and should) specify a
dependency on this gem using the [Pessimistic Version Constraint][pvc] with two digits of precision.

For example:

```ruby
spec.add_dependency 'oauth2', '~> 1.4'
```

[semver]: http://semver.org/
[pvc]: http://guides.rubygems.org/patterns/#pessimistic-version-constraint

## License

[MIT][license]

- Copyright (c) 2011-2013 Michael Bleigh and Intridea, Inc.
- Copyright (c) 2017-2018 [oauth-xx organization][oauth-xx]
- See [LICENSE][license] for details.

[license]: LICENSE
[oauth-xx]: https://github.com/oauth-xx

## Development

After checking out the repo, run `bin/setup` to install dependencies. Then, run `rake spec` to run the tests. You can also run `bin/console` for an interactive prompt that will allow you to experiment.

To install this gem onto your local machine, run `bundle exec rake install`. To release a new version, update the version number in `version.rb`, and then run `bundle exec rake release`, which will create a git tag for the version, push git commits and tags, and push the `.gem` file to [rubygems.org](https://rubygems.org).

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/oauth-xx/oauth2. This project is intended to be a safe, welcoming space for collaboration, and contributors are expected to adhere to the [Contributor Covenant](http://contributor-covenant.org) code of conduct.

## Code of Conduct

Everyone interacting in the OAuth2 project’s codebases, issue trackers, chat rooms and mailing lists is expected to follow the [code of conduct](https://github.com/oauth-xx/oauth2/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
